It's been a long time coming, but tonight, because of what we did on this day, in this election,  at this defining moment, change has come to America.
A little bit earlier this evening, I received an extraordinarily gracious call from Senator McCain.  Senator McCain fought long and hard in this campaign, and he's fought even longer and 
harder for the country that he loves. He has endured sacrifices for America that most of us 
cannot begin to imagine. We are better off for the service rendered by this brave and selfless 
leader. I congratulate him; I congratulate Governor Palin for all that they've achieved, and I
look forward to working with them to renew this nation's promise in the months ahead. 
I want to thank my partner in this journey, a man who campaigned from his heart and spoke 
for the men and women he grew up with on the streets of Scranton and rode with on the train
home to Delaware, the Vice President­elect of the United States, Joe Biden. 
And I would not be standing here tonight without the unyielding support of my best friend for 
the last 16 years, the rock of our family, the love of my life, the nation's next First Lady: 
Michelle Obama. Sasha and Malia, I love you both more than you can imagine, and you have 
earned the new puppy that's coming with us to the White House. And while she's no longer 
with us, I know my grandmother's watching, along with the family that made me who I am. I
miss them tonight, and I know that my debt to them is beyond measure. To my sister Maya,
my sister Alma, all my other brothers and sisters ­­ thank you so much for the support that
you've given me. I am grateful to them. 
And to my campaign manager, David Plouffe ­­ the unsung hero of this campaign, who built
the best political campaign, I think, in the history of the United States of America. To my chief 
strategist David Axelrod ­­ who's been a partner with me every step of the way. To the best
campaign team ever assembled in the history of politics ­­ you made this happen, and I am 
forever grateful for what you've sacrificed to get it done.
But above all, I will never forget who this victory truly belongs to. It belongs to you. It
belongs to you. I was never the likeliest candidate for this office. We didn't start with much
money or many endorsements. Our campaign was not hatched in the halls of Washington. It
began in the backyards of Des Moines and the living rooms of Concord and the front porches 
of Charleston. It was built by working men and women who dug into what little savings they 
had to give 5 dollars and 10 dollars and 20 dollars to the cause. It grew strength from the 
young people who rejected the myth of their generation's apathy, who left their homes and 
their families for jobs that offered little pay and less sleep. It drew strength from the not­so­  young people who braved the bitter cold and scorching heat to knock on doors of perfect
strangers, and from the millions of Americans who volunteered and organized and proved that
more than two centuries later a government of the people, by the people, and for the people 
has not perished from the Earth. This is your victory. 
And I know you didn't do this just to win an election. And I know you didn't do it for me. You
did it because you understand the enormity of the task that lies ahead. For even as we 
celebrate tonight, we know the challenges that tomorrow will bring are the greatest of our 
lifetime: two wars, a planet in peril, the worst financial crisis in a century. Even as we stand 
here tonight, we know there are brave Americans waking up in the deserts of Iraq and the 
mountains of Afghanistan to risk their lives for us. There are mothers and fathers who will lie 
awake after the children fall asleep and wonder how they'll make the mortgage or pay their doctors' bills or save enough for their child's college education. There's new energy to
harness, new jobs to be created, new schools to build, and threats to meet, alliances to repair. 